#Writing at Elastic: Personality and Tone#

What do we mean when we say a piece of writing sounds or feels “Elastic”?

We like to think of the Elastic writing style as an AI composite of all the good people here. It’s a combination of Shay’s curiosity, drive, and quirk; Steve Kearns’ clarity and concision; Clint and Jordan’s accessibility and unabashed helpfulness; Mark Walkom’s patience and empathy; and Rashid Khan’s innovation and panache — to name only a few. 

So how do we consistently create words that sounds like they came from not just a human, but a particularly smart, helpful, and creative human? We have to stay true to our origins and define what authenticity means for ourselves. 

In that spirit, here are five imperatives for writing at Elastic. 

##First, be helpful.##
Know exactly who your audience is and what problems they’re facing, then deliver relevant insight, content, or information. Think of every piece of writing as part of a conversation with someone you can help, and go from there. Keep the dialogue flowing by offering a reason to follow up -- a connection with an expert, additional resources, or attendance at an in-person event. Above all, we strive to help our users come to their own “Aha” moments by sharing the right resources at the right time.

##Be human.##
Talk like a person, not a jargon-generating computer. But please don’t talk like a politician campaigning for re-election. We’re human, not folksy. We’re also storytellers. Tell a great story that delivers helpful information. Strive to be both conversational and credible. 

##Be concise.##
The cardinal rule of good writing: do not waste your reader’s time. Whatever you write, take another pass and try to cut it in half. When in doubt, use the paramedic method. If you’re left with only a few words, you may not have needed to say anything in the first place.

##Be clear.##
What Elastic does and how the products we offer work can be hard to explain. This is a feature, not a bug. While it’s difficult to address technical topics accurately, engagingly, and clearly, we strive for greatness. Wherever possible, provide concrete details and examples to bring Elastic solutions to life (show, don’t tell). When in doubt, ask ze experts. Elasticians are always happy to help you stick the landing when you’re writing about their projects.

##Be quirky, not kitschy.##
Sure, you can have bonus points for being amusing, but beware: It’s all well and good to try and be clever with every word or thought, but often there isn’t the time, the subject doesn’t lend itself to that sort of dressing up, or it's just better said plainly. If you can quirk with the best of them, do it. If you can’t, don’t. When in doubt, err on the side of straightforwardness. And for all that is good in this world, please limit yourself to one exclamation mark per thousand words (at the most).

